- Documentation: added some details about cache updates (#11152)
apollographql/apollo-client: docs/source/caching/cache-interaction.mdx

| [Using GraphQL fragments](#using-graphql-fragments) | `readFragment` / `writeFragment` / `updateFragment` / `useFragment` | Access the fields of any cached object without composing an entire query to reach that object.  |
| [Directly modifying cached fields](#using-cachemodify) | `cache.modify` | Manipulate cached data without using GraphQL at all. |

You can use whichever combination of strategies and methods are most helpful for your use case.

> Changing cache fields with these methods will only affect the objects at the very place you specify by the query, the fragment or the location of the `modify` call. So, if you're changing an object at a nested place from `{__ref: '5'}` to `{__ref: '5', completed: true}`, this will override the `completed` value for cache reads at the specific place, but nowhere else.

Reviewer: I'm a little confused by the use of "place" here: do you mean the particular reference?

@bignimbus , since you were part of the [original discussion](https://github.com/apollographql/apollo-client/issues/11135) maybe you have some insight?

Author: With "place" I mean what I'm specifying with a fragment or query, e.g. an object with `id: 5` in a result at `'ROOT_QUERY.myEntities("orderBy": "size", "pagination": {"first": 20, "cursor": 1234})'`. Changing a value of this object there won't affect the object with the same `__ref`/`id` in, say, `'ROOT_QUERY.myEntities("orderBy": "age", "pagination": {"first": 20, "cursor": 1234})'`, and neither the object itself, stored at the root level (`__APOLLO_CLIENT__.data.data`). At least that's what I understood from the original discussion,

I'm not sure what you mean with "particluar reference" - the `Reference` object or the pointer to the updated ... eh ... location in the cache. It's really hard to find the right words when everything seems to have a double meaning: a naive one and one specififc for the Apollo Cache domain. :D

Reviewer 2: Thanks for the tag!  Should we consider a different approach here?  We have documentation about `__ref` objects.  We could link to [this url](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/react/caching/overview/#example).  Ex:

```suggestion
Bear in mind the difference between fields that contain references to other objects in the cache and fields that contain literal values.  References are objects that contain a `__ref` field (read more [here](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/react/caching/overview/#example)).  Modifying a reference will not change the values contained in the object to which the reference points.  So avoid updating an object from something like `{__ref: '5'}` to `{__ref: '5', completed: true}`.
```

Author: Two things:
- You're using a double space between sentences. It that common? I think I haven't seen that elsewhere in the documentation.
- Why should I avoid doing to update an object to `{__ref: '5', completed: true}`? I my case, I wanted to update a query result with a generic utility method (for modyfing pagination results), so I did exactly that. This generic method has no knowledge about the underlying data or let alone its type, and since `cache.modify` does not come with a straight-forward way to fetch the referenced item, I went with:
```typescript
const myModifier: Modifier<Reference> = (prevData, details) => {
   return {
      ... prevData,
      someField: 'updatedValue'
   }
}
```
and thought: 'Well, for my current component it's enough since my `updatedValue` will be regarded there, and for other the data will be reloaded anyway!' (depends on the fetch policy ofc.). This is why I created the issue at the first place - b/c I wasn't sure that intended, and by the and, I figured it was. :D

Reviewer 2: Thanks for the reply @JonasDoe!  My two cents: there's nothing explicitly wrong with doing what you're doing, it's just not a pattern that I think the maintainers should explicitly support.  Reference objects are explicitly intended to point to other objects, the fact that they can be arbitrarily extended to include value literals is just a feature of JavaScript, not an intentional design choice of Apollo Client.  I hope that clarifies things!  Happy to go to single spaces after periods, it's just a habit of mine to do double spaces.  I believe HTML will render the same thing either way.

Author: I think I screwed something up. I wanted to reply here with an suggestion, but commited your proposal of this part, as it seems. Anyway, then I try it the old way:
I'ld suggest something as
```
Bear in mind the difference between fields that contain references to other objects in the cache and fields that contain literal values. References are objects that contain a `__ref` field (read more [here](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/react/caching/overview/#example)). Modifying a reference will not change the values contained in the object to which the reference points. So avoid updating an object from something like `{__ref: '5'}` to `{__ref: '5', completed: true}` if you want to update more than that specific query result.
```

> Bear in mind the difference between fields that contain references to other objects in the cache and fields that contain literal values.  References are objects that contain a `__ref` field (read more [here](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/react/caching/overview/#example)).  Modifying a reference will not change the values contained in the object to which the reference points.  So avoid updating an object from something like `{__ref: '5'}` to `{__ref: '5', completed: true}`.

Reviewer: It's best practice to use [descriptive link text](https://developers.google.com/style/link-text) for a11y and overall UX.

```suggestion
Bear in mind the difference between fields that contain references to other objects in the cache and fields that contain literal values.  References are objects that contain a `__ref` field—see the [example](./overview/#example) in the caching overview.  Modifying a reference will not change the values contained in the object to which the reference points.  So avoid updating an object from something like `{__ref: '5'}` to `{__ref: '5', completed: true}`.
```

When you define a modifier function for a field that contains a scalar, an enum, or a list of these base types, the modifier function is passed the exact existing value for the field. For example, if you define a modifier function for an object's `quantity` field that has current value `5`, your modifier function is passed the value `5`.

> **However**, when you define a modifier function for a field that contains an object type or a list of objects, those objects are represented as **references**. Each reference points to its corresponding object in the cache by its cache ID. If you return a _different_ reference in your modifier function, you change _which_ other cached object is contained in this field. You _don't_ modify the original cached object's data. Additionally, modifying a field (or adding a new one) in a reference will only take effect for the location you're modifying.

Reviewer: Same question as above: is "location" just one location in the cache?

Author: Yes. It's what I named `"place"` before. Maybe I should have sticked to that term.
